
After the storm of bad financial results from technology giants this month, Apple’s earnings on Tuesday should raise some spirits.
Apple stock’s resilience during the poor results and subsequent selloff of Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX), Facebook (NASDAQ:FB) and Twitter (NYSE:TWTR) demonstrates faith in a company that has rarely disappointed investors.
Analysts expect Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) to report earnings per share of $2.16, a 29% jump from the same period a year ago. Apple has beaten earnings expectations in every quarter but one since March 2013. For revenue, the consensus calls for $52.3 billion, a bit lower than the year-ago period.
Apple (AAPL) 1-Year Chart
Since reporting its first-quarter earnings, Apple stock has been on an upward trajectory, proving many top analysts wrong who saw the company’s super growth cycle ending due to its slowing sales of iPhones, which still account for more than 60% of revenue.
We don’t think this assessment is wrong, but what makes us excited about Apple is that it has a plan to counter that slowdown.
Services Can Counter an iPhone Sales Slump
Apple’s services business, which includes the App Store, Apple Music, iCloud storage and Apple Pay, is thriving at a time when iPhone sales are stalling. Revenue from services surged 31% to a record $9.2 billion in its fiscal second quarter ended March 31. Apple has the potential to surprise the market again on this front when it reports its fiscal Q3 earnings.
As long as Apple continues to show growth from its services business, investors will continue to like Apple stock. In fiscal 2017 ended Sept. 30, Apple sold 217 million iPhones, more than 40 million iPads and 20 million Macs. This is a huge pile of hardware that can be used to integrate with the company’s growing list of services.
The growing number of service subscribers show that Apple has been successful in diversifying its revenue base. The number of paying users for an Apple Music subscription that costs $10 per month recently hit 50 million. At the end of Q2, Apple had a total of more than 270 million paid subscriptions across Apple-branded services and third-party services, posting an increase of over 100 million on a year-over-year basis.
Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook’s plan to target iPhone sales that at least meet analysts’ expectations, grow sales from the services business and maintain a robust share buyback plan and regular dividend hikes, will keep growth-hungry investors happy.
If the company struggles on any of these metrics, that will be a matter of concern for the market and might end the rally in Apple’s shares, which have jumped 28% in the past year. 



