
Future retirees face a tough dilemma when trying to decide which investments will increase their retirement savings, especially at a time when the rate of return on fixed-income assets, including government bonds, savings bank accounts, and other fixed-term deposits, is close to zilch. But for those willing to take a little extra risk, the best bet in this market is to go for income-producing stocks.
While there are many reasons to avoid the risk of investing in equities, diversifying a retirement portfolio and putting some portion of it into stocks can help give a meaningful boost to savings. And regardless of what’s happening in the markets, it’s always a good time to invest in good businesses which generate hefty cash flows and regularly reward stakeholders. This strategy means thinking long-term and buying into businesses as a partner, not as a trader.
FedEx Corporation (NYSE:FDX) is one such dividend stock that can be held for the next 20 or 30 years, depending on your retirement goal.
Delivery Giant Offering Long-Term Value
For growth-hungry investors, it’s probably the worst time to buy shares of delivery giant, FedEx. The global economy is on shaky ground. Both Europe and China are showing signs of a pronounced slowdown, while the U.S. is in a late stage of the growth cycle after a decade-long expansion. The risks to its economy are growing.
Global delivery businesses are a proxy for the global economy and generally give early warnings on the outlook for trade and business investment. That’s the reason FedEx stock has been hit hard, falling almost 30% over the last year.
However, for buy-and-hold investors seeking a good value stock to hang on to over the next 20 years, this pullback offers a good entry point to a company which has a huge economic moat, a term coined by Warren Buffett to define businesses with massive competitive power to defend their turfs. FedEx stock certainly fits into this category.
Trading at $177.98 at Friday's close, FedEx stock looks cheap when compared to its peers, after the significant downward correction of the past 12 months. Its price-to-earnings ratio of 15.68 is lower than the industry average of 25.84.
FedEx Weekly Chart
At the midpoint of management’s latest guidance range, FedEx is expected to earn an adjusted net income of $16.05 per share in its fiscal year 2019. That will be a modest 5% increase compared with the $15.31 per share earnings the company reported for fiscal 2018. That gives a forward earnings multiple of 11, indicating that FedEx stock is offering good value at current levels. The company reports Q3 earnings tomorrow, with analysts expecting an EPS of $3.14 and revenue of $17.62 billion for the quarter.
But earnings growth isn’t the only reason to buy shares in market-leading companies. The biggest attraction of these stable businesses is that they generate regular income for a retirement portfolio and that income continues to grow over time.
Currently, FedEx pays $0.65 per share quarterly dividend with an annual yield of 1.45%. This yield looks meager when compared to some high-yielding stocks in the market. But we would still prefer FedEx stocks over other, riskier, names because the company has a lot of room to grow its payouts.
Since 2013, the FedEx payout has grown from an annual $0.58 a share to $2.60 per share, a jump of 348% in just five years. Despite the stunning growth, FedEx still has a lot of room to grow its dividend with a paltry 17.27% payout ratio versus an industry average of 46.91%.
Bottom Line
Retirement investing is very different from buying shares for short-term gains. When it comes to generating wealth for your golden years, think like a business owner, not a trader. Diversify your portfolio by adding quality income stocks that pay growing dividends. FedEx is a good candidate if you’re embarking on this journey. 



