
It’s going to be another tough week for global stocks amid signs that both the U.S. and China are set to escalate their trade war even further, even as President Trump expands the use of his tariff weapon to other countries.
Bloomberg reported on Friday that China has already formulated a plan to restrict exports of rare earths to the U.S. if it needs to. On another front, President Trump said he plans to impose a 5% U.S. tariff on all Mexican goods because of illegal immigration. Trump on Friday also terminated a preferential treatment to India’s exports of nearly 2,000 products to the U.S. duty-free.
These negative developments are likely to pressure equities further. The S&P 500 just finished its worst May performance in seven years. While investors will focus on these macro issues, below are three stocks which might see price action triggered by company-specific developments.
1. Salesforce.com
Salesforce.com (NYSE:CRM), which sells software and cloud-based services to corporate clients, will report first-quarter 2019 earnings on Tuesday, June 4, after the market close. On average, analysts expect $0.61 a share profit on sales of $3.56 billion.
CRM Weekly TTM
Salesforce’s share price chart during the past six months tells a similar story story to that of the overall market which is under pressure due to the U.S.-China trade war and the associated uncertainty that could hurt global technology spending. Trading at $151.41 per share as of Friday's close, the stock has already shed more than half of the gains it posted since the start of the year.
But beyond these macro headwinds, San Francisco-based Salesforce’s business seems to be maturing and with this development the days of large spending on cloud-computing appear to be behind us, at least in the current cycle. In March, the company provided a revenue forecast that fell short of estimates. Sales were forecast to be $3.67-$3.68 billion in the period ending in April. The projected revenue increase of 22% for Q1 would be the smallest year-over-year gain since at least 2010.
2. CVS Health
After boosting its profit outlook at the beginning of May, CVS Health (NYSE:CVS) will hold an investor day on Tuesday.
CVS Weekly TTM
A healthy profit outlook for 2019 and a strong Q1 earnings report, however, have so far failed to boost investor confidence in the stock which is down more than 20% this year. It closed on Friday at $52.37 amid worries over the changing U.S. drug landscape and strong competition from Walgreens Boots Alliance (NASDAQ:WBA).
CVS management should help “alleviate the uncertainty weighing on shares,” Morgan Stanley) analyst Ricky Goldwasser wrote in a note to clients in April. Concerns persist regarding the integration costs of its $69-billion merger with Aetna (NYSE:AET), which closed in late November, making the merged entity one of the largest health care insurance and benefits companies in the industry.
The merger is a way for CVS to beef up its brick-and-mortar operations while boosting the services side of the business. It's a response to Amazon's (NASDAQ:AMZN) efforts at taking on the healthcare industry.
3. Beyond Meat
The plant-based meat substitute producer, Beyond Meat (NASDAQ:BYND) will release Q1 earnings on Thursday, June 6 after the market close. It's the company's first report since going public in early May.
BYND 300 Minute Chart
The stock, which closed at $104.12 on Friday, has been the darling of investors since its IPO on Thursday May 2. Though the IPO was priced at $25 a share, it started trading at $46. Beyond Meat's shares have surged more than four-fold on expectations that the company's vegetable-based products have huge market potential.
Indeed, the company is targeting consumers who are seeking a meat substitute that looks and tastes good. Beyond Meat’s biggest attraction is that its products come surprisingly close to real meat in taste, smell, texture and appearance.
Luckily for Beyond Meat, the $878 million-a-year-and-growing market for meat substitutes was left open by big food players, giving startups like Beyond Meat and privately-held Impossible Foods Inc. an opportunity to fill the gap. To capture the broader market possibilities, Beyond Meat has developed three plant-based products that align with the largest meat categories globally: beef, pork and poultry.
On the back of such a powerful—and unexpected—rally, the stock is highly vulnerable to any slight miss on earnings. For Q1, analysts are expecting a loss of $0.16 a share with sales growing to $31.5 million. 



